To start this off, yes, this IS a rant. A rant about how Microsoft has been progressively
ruining every single one of their products (and why it's not gonna stop). Buckle up.

Microsoft is a multi-billion dollar company. They own the biggest operating system market
share (as of 2024), known as Windows.
Since the year 1985, Microsoft has been releasing Windows and steadily gaining popularity,
for its ease of use and, because most users didn't have another choice. Having a computer
at home was already a huge flex, so people who wanted to stay on the trend had to upgrade,
fast. Windows has secured its userbase.

To the point: Microsoft is ruining every product they've ever created. Windows, Bing (aka
MSN), Office, and the list goes on. How, you may ask? Greed. Microsoft's want for money has
gotten to such a point where selling their user's data doesn't seem like as much of a concern
anymore. In their eyes, it's just a way of maximizing their income. They justify it by saying
the same things: "We use your data to improve your (experience/security/whatever.) Meanwhile,
the only thing they're improving is their wealth. The only thing they're growing is their
own wallet.

Another big Microsoft fuckup is their obsession over AI. They've been trying to shove it into
as many products as possible. Take Windows (Cortana, which was a huge flop, then Copilot), Bing
(again, Copilot) and even GitHub, which they somehow acquired in 2015. All this is just an
attempt at increasing their wealth and the amount of data they sell. They also use AI as a way
to attract braindead investors who think AI is the future of everything and everyone and, you
guessed it: make even MORE money.

Pretty recently (since mid-2022), Microsoft has been deprecating software that couldn't be riddled
with AI. A good example is Skype, which they've replaced with Teams (read more about that yourself,
it won't fit here). Since Skype was a very small but popular app, Microsoft had the "brilliant"
idea of deprecating it in favor of Teams (which they've also ported to the Internet, something
they didn't feel like doing with Skype). Many users have reported their concerns about Teams'
privacy and how you couldn't opt out of it being on your device. Dick move, but alright. They've
also deprecated the Outlook app, which was really heavily used by Windows users since ~2014, and
that also sparked an outrage amongst Microsoft fans.

I don't have much else to say. As long as you're a Windows user, you'll have to put up with the
changes that will happen over the next few years, and that sadly includes me. It sucks, but
we'll have to endure this one. Peace.