
there has been what's called a 'civil war'
between vim and neovim users. i used to drive
vim for months and was enraged at the only
mention of neovim. but alas, i've switched,
and here is why (and why you might want to!)
-----
+pros
squishy: neovim is almost 4x as moddable and
customizable as vim, arguably. only dotfyle.com
by itself holds around 1.4k of plugins designed
for nvim usage. hell, it even supports plugins
designed for vim (from versions 8 and above!)
active: the project is, say, way more maintained
than vim right now. after brad's passing, the
project has come to a halt, due to no new features
being added. neovim, on the other hand, is
maintained by a big group of developers, which makes
it a more popular pick.
tutorials: neovim has proper guides online on how to
set it up quickly and painlessly, how to troubleshoot
errors, install plugins & more. it also has highly
active forums!
popularity: neovim is gaining popularity because of
the issues that vim has, which gives it a very big
advantage! it also has a lot of plugin frameworks
(correct term?), such as CoC (which basically turns
neovim into vscode) and has more themes designed
for it.
-----
+cons
bloated: would be an overstatement, but the size is
still a concern. if no previous vim installation was
found, (atleast on debian) neovim will pull:
* core package
* vim stuff
* and a baggage of dependencies.
which might not sound very good for you suckless
fanatics out there.
age: neovim is a way newer than vim, thus making it
untrustworthy for some linux users. i wouldn't say
it's a big issue, but it's still one that's gatekeeping
users away from installing neovim. maybe when it becomes
more aged...
bells&whistles: possibly overwhelming for new users. even
when i installed neovim for the first time, it felt like
i just downloaded an ide with a trillion features. kind of
felt like a vscode first start, though maybe it's just me..
stereotypes: a lot of so-called 'skids' use stuff like arch
linux, hyprland, and neovim, which makes its reputation
slightly worse (which is one of the reasons i've not used neovim
up until now!)
---
in total, i've summed up 4 reasons why you might like/dislike
neovim. i hope you enjoyed this read, and if you have an opinion
or concern you want to share, refer to my homepage's contact
section.
and that's it! see ya' later.