
have you ever sat down in your room and
just thought: "hmm, what window manager
should i use today"? well, probably not,
but here's a post describing the types of
window managers and how to pick one for your
needs.
-----
+part 1: input types
keyboard-driven: most tiling window managers
today are. for example, dwm, bspwm, i3 and i
could go on. these are the most popular
because usually you have to switch between
your mouse and keyboard, which is not very
comfortable. besides, keybindings are
(arguably) way more versatile than right-click
menus.
these are popular amongst developers (because
you can do a lot of stuff quickly) and keyboard
fans.
mouse-driven: well to some extent. usually a
mouse driven approach also includes a floating
window manager (of the box variety, cwm, fvwm...)
and a right-click menu, because you can't do
much in a floating window manager without one
(unless you add keybinds but that's cheating..)
mouse driven setups are popular amongst slow typers
(myself included) and people who like the sound of a
mouse clicking ;)
-----
+part 2: window managing types
tiling: windows are arranged in a pattern, usually
a grid. some popular examples include:
i3; dwm; xmonad, herbstluftwm, and bspwm
tiling window managers are the more popular pick
because you can maximize the amount of windows on
the screen (thus enhancing multitasking abilities.)
there are 2 types of tiling window managers: manual
and automatic. manual means it will not do anything
to the windows unless you tell it to, and automatic
helps you manage the windows for you. i personally
prefer manual tiling, but it's up to you to choose
a mode.
floating: windows are placed somewhere on the screen
and the user is given the option to drag them anywhere.
they do not make a grid, but instead place themselves
somewhere on the desktop, usually under the pointer,
for easy reach. popular examples of floating window
managers include:
*box; (c)twm; fvwm; and most desktop environments.
floating window managers are objectively easier to use
because a) you don't have to remember keybinds to
arrange/exec stuff, and b) if you just moved from
windows or mac, this will be easier to get used to.
i use a floating window manager too, but i'll probably
delay that for another post.
floating window managers do not have variations, but
they have more examples.
hybrid: is all of the above, they can be both tiling
and floating at the user's request. a very nice hybrid
window manager is i3, which does allow the user to make
a window float. another good example is ratpoison, but
it is very hard to get used to. i tried to use it for
a week and had to quit on day 3 :/
-----
+part 3: BONUS!
multiple window managers exist online that aren't much
used nowadays, like the classic twm, or the abandoned
miwm (somehow still in the debian repos as of sep 2024.)
these window managers are very boring by themselves, but
tinkering with the config enough does help, a lot!
and here are some golden utils for people who want to build
a nice workflow:
jgmenu - easily scriptable menu, written in java, AFAIK.
useful for window managers that don't have a right click menu
builtin or those who want a custom one.
lemonbar - also a very nifty tool. as the name states, it's a
bar, except it isn't any generic bar. it reads input from stdin
and outputs it in text format, so you have to write a shell script
to make it look nice, which makes it my favorite bar because i love
bash.
vdesk - for window managers that don't support workspaces OOTB.
i use this tool too, and it works perfectly.
unclutter - just hides your cursor after a period of time. very nice
if you don't want any distractions during work.
-----
so, to sum this up: what window manager do i use? there's no definite
answer. you might be a dev, but prefer kde or openbox as your environment
of choice. you might be a regular user and prefer i3 for its tiling.
it doesn't matter who you are, use whatever you want, you are not
required to be someone in order to use a window manager. but if you had
issues with picking a window manager that you want to use, i hope this
writeup helped! as always, if you have an opinion or concern you wish
to share with me, the contact area on the homepage might help you.
and that's it! see ya' later.